# Travel sensor

## Project Summary

As the world battle against climate change, the risk of health issues from environmental hazards continues to rise. In Singapore, rising temperatures, unpredictable rainfalls, and haze pollution remains a growing concern, posing as a health risk especially to the more vulnerable in society. Furthermore, during the COVID-19 pandemic, citizens needed a means to detect and defend against airborne infectious diseases. Hence, there is a growing need for citizens to proactively safeguard themselves from the Singapore’s evolving environmental hazards. 

This project aims to develop a portable environmental monitoring device that powered by ambient energy sources, without the need for charging. This device will focus on monitor key environmental variables relevant to both indoor and outdoor settings in Singapore, providing users with real-time alerts for potential hazards. 

The report outlines the considerations taken from each stage of the project’s progressions, encompassing research, ideation, design, implementation, and tests conducted, exploring technologies from three main domains: electronics, 3D modeling and software programming. It offers insights into the challenges encountered, and the solutions devised in creating a reliable, portable, self-sustaining environmental monitoring device.

DR-NTU Link: https://dr.ntu.edu.sg/handle/10356/176453

## Project Initial Brief

Energy harvesting devices convert ambient energy into electrical energy, collecting energy from sources that cost nothing. Various forms of ambient energy, such as linear motion, pressure, light, and temperature differences, are converted into usable electrical energy. These devices have applications in numerous areas. For example, some systems convert motion, such as that of ocean waves, into electricity, which can power sensors for autonomous operation. Another application is in wearable electronics, where energy harvesting devices can power or recharge devices such as radio communication equipment.

All of these devices must be sufficiently robust to endure long-term exposure to hostile environments and have dynamic sensitivity to exploit the entire spectrum of wave motions. The project entails studying the types of energy harvesting devices available and then designing and developing a system that combines energy harvesting with suitable wireless technology to create a service-free wireless sensor solution for possible use in buildings and industrial automation.

Students with a very strong interest in software and hardware are preferred.

## Pre-requisite
An API key for a Telegram Bot has to be generated by contacting @BotFather on Telegram.

The key should then be store on the .env file as
```
TELEBOT_API_KEY= 'PASTE YOUR API KEY HERE'
```

## Instructions for Cloning
When cloning this repository, please note that certain folders are not essential for regular use and can be excluded to save space and download time. These folders include:

- archive: Contains deprecated files.
- 3d models: Contains 3D models associated with the project.
- schematic: Contains schematic diagrams for electronics.
